[Page 1]
Qiaoyuan ZHENG
zqiaoyuan@ethz.ch qiaoyuan.zheng@foxmail.com (+41) 76 625 10 53
Beckhammer 19, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland
EDUCATION
M.Sc. ETH Zürich, D-INFK 2025.09 -
• Data Science
L.Sc. Sorbonne University, Faculty of Science and Engineering 2022.09 - 2025.06
• Double Major in Computer Science and Mathematics
• Average Grade: 17.10/20 GPA:3.96/4.0(according to WES) L3 Mention:Bien
D.U. University Paris Cité, University Diploma of French Language and Civilization 2022.02 - 2022.06
• Faculty of Society and Humanities
• Mention : Bien (14-16/20)
French Courses of Xianda College of Shanghai International Studies University 2021.09 - 2022.01
• School of International Education, French course without diploma or certificate
• Learning French to satisfy the condition of Sorbonne University and University Paris Cité
• passed the TCF examination, level B1
Hangzhou Xuejun High School 2018.09 - 2021.06
• China College Admission Examination Scores: 636/750
• Got A/A Grade in all 10 courses in” The Academic Test for The Ordinary Highschool Students”:
Chinese, Math, English, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Politics, History, Geography,
Technology (Computer Science)
Language Skills:
Chinese:Native
English:Fluent(IELTS 7.5,GRE 328)
French:Fluent(DELF B2)
German:Beginner
INTERNSHIP
ESIEE Paris 2023.07 - 2023.08
Researcher
 Worked with graduate students under the supervision of Dr. You Jiang to implement a new kernel, U-
Net 24, for time series forecasting.
 Conducted initial literature review by reading 10+ papers weekly in preparation for independent model
replication procedures. Selected the best and most efficient models for downstream comparative
testing.
 Replicated several time series models based on Encoder-Only/Decoder-only/ Enc-Dec Transformer,
and patchTST from GitHub and Arxiv.
 Adjusted the compatibility of the input and output data and the template training code so that these
models could successfully run in our database. Performed extensive fixes to resolve incompatibility
issues.
 Ran tests on synthetic datasets to compare the optimization and time complexity of these models to U-
Net 24.
 Results of my work are used in the doctoral paper of Dr. You Jiang slated to be published in 2025.
 Tools used: VSCode, Github, Python, Git, Pytorch, Jupyter Notebook
 https://github.com/qiaoyuan667/DEC_ENC_Transformer

[Page 2]
PROJECTS
Generating Aperiodic Tiling Images 2024.03 - 2024.07
 Wrote multiple programs to generate Penrose tiling, Wang tiling, and Hat tiling, supervised by Dr.
Charles BOUILLAGUET, Associate Professor with Accreditation to Supervise Research (HDR) at
Sorbonne University.
 Used the substitution method to generate Penrose tiling, and designed a redundancy detection
mechanism to decrease algorithm complexity.
 Used the idea of DFS and the matching rules method to splice Wang’s tiles; Optimized the algorithm by
programming it to ignore the tiles with coordinates that exceed the size of the paving, thus saving on
computational power instead of generating all portions of large, complete triangles to begin with.
 Attempted to independently solve the Einstein problem by generating Meta-tiles of Hat tiling based on a
published paper on Combinatorial Theory: https://escholarship.org/uc/item/3317z9z9
 Studied the time required to run the three algorithms in relation to the sizes of the generated tilings.
 Tools used: Python, Jupyter Notebook, Git, SVG, Numpy
 https://github.com/CroustitBat/Projet-Pavages-Aperiodiques
Implementation and Comparison of the Algorithms Q-Learning and Sarsa 2023.07 - 2023.08
 Created a map editor as a visual interface that automatically converts maps into numpy arrays and
saves them as json files under the supervision of Dr. YOU Jiang, Research Assistant at ESIEE Paris
and UPEC.
 Designed 15 maps of grid world games with the differences between algorithms in mind in order to
make the most effective comparisons.
 Implemented the Q-learning and Sarsa models of intelligence on different maps, adjusted parameters
and trained them on each map, and analyzed results for the strengths and weaknesses of each model.
 The maps and editor I designed are currently adopted as an exercise for second-year postgraduate
students at the Université Paris-Est Créteil (UPEC) to advance their understanding of various models of
intelligence.
 Tools used: Python, Pygame, Jupyter Notebook, Matplotlib, Numpy
 https://github.com/qiaoyuan667/Q-learning-Sarsa-DQN-in-grid-world
Statistical Analysis and Report of COVID-19 Data and Relevant Factors 2020.02 - 2021.12
 Spearheaded a team of 4 to investigate the change in the amount of time that people in different
countries spent at home during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Searched for and selected databases, processed data with linear regression and taught team members
to do it, visualized obtained data, and analyzed how policies affected correlations.
 Found the quarantine measures and government threat level advisory of some countries to be
ineffective due to their inverse correlation with general time spent at home and the actual local severity
of the pandemic; advised governments to remain flexible in adjusting their policies to foster public faith
and prevent the public from using their own judgments to estimate local severity.
 This is a Supervised Research Program of 4EU+ Alliance (Atélier Recherche Encadré de COVID &
DATA Literacy de 4EU+ Alliance) under the direction of Olivier MILHAUD, Associated Professor of
Sorbonne University.
 Tools used: Python, Jupyter Notebook, Numpy, Matplotlib
KNOWLEDGE
 Courses taken in Math: Liner Algebra, Digital and Functional Series, Topology, Theory of Measurement,
Lebesgue Integral, Theory of Probability, Discrete Mathematics
 Courses taken in CS: Object-oriented Programming, Advanced C, Data Science, Database, Operating
Systems, Algorithms, Data Structure, Functional Programming
 Programming: Python, C, JAVA, Visual Basic, OCmal, Pascal, SQL, LATEX.
 Familiar Technology: Endoder-only/Decoder-only/Enc-Dec Transformer, patchTST, Q-learning, Sarsa,
DQN
